# SQL-Database-Design-for-BTS
Beaver technology solutions (BTS)  is an innovative information technology consulting firm that works to maximize the efficiency of companies' uses of resources across Oregon. As the firm continues to rapidly grow, managing projects, deadlines, and employee assignments through a singular Google spreadsheet has become difficult. The problems we are addressing cover a couple of topics that beaver technology solutions can address by creating a relational database. 

- Goal One: Optimize the coordination and scheduling of project tasks
- Goal two: Manage employee workloads
- Goal Three: Determine where there is room for expansion
- Goal Four: Improve customer service through reports and continuous service improvements

After analyzing the current spreadsheet that BTS was using to track projects, we reviewed all of the existing business rules and began to plan and create an ERD. Using the ERD, I focused on creating the new  <a href="BTS_FINALDATABASE.accdb">BTS relational database</a> in Microsoft Access, checking all of the tables and enforcing all primary and foreign key relationships. The final database resulted in 11 different tables that track employee information, office location information, employee skills, projects, project tasks, and customer feedback. Upon completion of the database, my team and I utilized multiple <a href="BTS Business Report Queries.sql">SQL queries</a> to generate 4 differnt <a href="Business Reports.pdf">business reports</a> to address the above goals. The queries that I specifically wrote, Queries 1 and 2 in the <a href="BTS Business Report Queries.sql">SQL query document,</a> were intended to focus on managing employee workload and understanding the skills of each employee in order to match them with the correct projects and project tasks.
